---
layout: post
title:  "Adventures with hdparm"
date:   2014-08-16
categories: update
---

Server is back up after a crash of sorts. Apparently, it is a bad idea to
reboot the server that serves you NFS shares while watching some TV series
served from said NFS share. The result is that my 3TB drive now believes it is
only 800 GB, and I'm unable to mount any file system on it, since the file
system is configured for 3TB. Also, when troubleshooting the usage of a
graphics card, remember to have all your RAM modules firmly in place, or you
may not get any graphics output at all.

**UPDATE**: The disk is now fully functional again, and as far as I can tell by
playing some random media files from it, nothing has been lost. Since I suspect
more people will have this problem, here's what I did in the end. The problem I
had was that the disk somehow believed itself to be smaller than its actual
size. Since the partition table and file system on the drive were set to its
actual size, this made it impossible to do anything before fixing this problem,
since a new file system (for example) would mean losing all data. Here goes:

* Make sure your kernel has support for `IDETASKIOCTL` since this is used by
  hdparm for what you're about to do
* Call `hdparm --yes-i-know-what-i-am-doing --dco-restore /dev/sdX`. Note that
  this command is marked as dangerous in the manual, so use at your own risk. It
  makes kind of a factory reset for the basic disk values, but it does not erase
  any data, really. In my session hdparm reported I/O error when issuing the
  command, but it seems to have worked anyway.
* Repartition the disk with gdisk or fdisk or whatever. Since my disk was a
  storage disk, I only had one big partition on it, so restoring that was easy.
* Run a file system check, in my case `fsck.ext4`. For me at least, some values
  in the file system did not match, so fsck fixed those.
* Mount the disk!

A log of what I did can be found below I've edited out a couple of calls to `dmesg
| tail`, but I recommend anyone checking the status there regularly during such
an operation. From looking at the gdisk output in the log, you can see that I
did overwrite my partition table with a new one (746 GiB partition). I would
advice against that, even if the partition tables doesn't touch any data.

{% highlight bash %}
gargravarr@frogstar:~$ sudo su
[sudo] password for gargravarr: 
root@frogstar:/home/gargravarr# hdparm --yes-i-know-what-i-am-doing --dco-restore /dev/sdc

/dev/sdc:
 issuing DCO restore command
 HDIO_DRIVE_CMD(dco_restore) failed: Input/output error
root@frogstar:/home/gargravarr# hdparm --yes-i-know-what-i-am-doing --dco-identify /dev/sdc

/dev/sdc:
 HDIO_DRIVE_CMD(dco_identify) failed: Input/output error
root@frogstar:/home/gargravarr# gdisk /dev/sdc
GPT fdisk (gdisk) version 0.8.8

Partition table scan:
  MBR: MBR only
  BSD: not present
  APM: not present
  GPT: present

Found valid MBR and GPT. Which do you want to use?
 1 - MBR
 2 - GPT
 3 - Create blank GPT

Your answer: 1

Command (? for help): v

No problems found. 4294969277 free sectors (2.0 TiB) available in 2
segments, the largest of which is 4294967263 (2.0 TiB) in size.

Command (? for help): p
Disk /dev/sdc: 5860533168 sectors, 2.7 TiB
Logical sector size: 512 bytes
Disk identifier (GUID): FCE6AAFB-5FF6-4286-9DC1-3665E8FAB523
Partition table holds up to 128 entries
First usable sector is 34, last usable sector is 5860533134
Partitions will be aligned on 2048-sector boundaries
Total free space is 4294969277 sectors (2.0 TiB)

Number  Start (sector)    End (sector)  Size       Code  Name
   1            2048      1565565871   746.5 GiB   8300  Linux filesystem

Command (? for help): d
Using 1

Command (? for help): p
Disk /dev/sdc: 5860533168 sectors, 2.7 TiB
Logical sector size: 512 bytes
Disk identifier (GUID): FCE6AAFB-5FF6-4286-9DC1-3665E8FAB523
Partition table holds up to 128 entries
First usable sector is 34, last usable sector is 5860533134
Partitions will be aligned on 2048-sector boundaries
Total free space is 5860533101 sectors (2.7 TiB)

Number  Start (sector)    End (sector)  Size       Code  Name

Command (? for help): n
Partition number (1-128, default 1): 
First sector (34-5860533134, default = 2048) or {+-}size{KMGTP}: 
Last sector (2048-5860533134, default = 5860533134) or {+-}size{KMGTP}: 
Current type is 'Linux filesystem'
Hex code or GUID (L to show codes, Enter = 8300): 
Changed type of partition to 'Linux filesystem'

Command (? for help): p
Disk /dev/sdc: 5860533168 sectors, 2.7 TiB
Logical sector size: 512 bytes
Disk identifier (GUID): FCE6AAFB-5FF6-4286-9DC1-3665E8FAB523
Partition table holds up to 128 entries
First usable sector is 34, last usable sector is 5860533134
Partitions will be aligned on 2048-sector boundaries
Total free space is 2014 sectors (1007.0 KiB)

Number  Start (sector)    End (sector)  Size       Code  Name
   1            2048      5860533134   2.7 TiB     8300  Linux filesystem

Command (? for help): w

Final checks complete. About to write GPT data. THIS WILL OVERWRITE EXISTING
PARTITIONS!!

Do you want to proceed? (Y/N): y
OK; writing new GUID partition table (GPT) to /dev/sdc.
The operation has completed successfully.

root@frogstar:/home/gargravarr# fsck.ext4 /dev/sdc1 
e2fsck 1.42.9 (4-Feb-2014)
Superblock has an invalid journal (inode 8).
Clear<y>? yes
*** ext3 journal has been deleted - filesystem is now ext2 only ***

/dev/sdc1 was not cleanly unmounted, check forced.
Pass 1: Checking inodes, blocks, and sizes
Pass 2: Checking directory structure
Pass 3: Checking directory connectivity
Pass 4: Checking reference counts
Pass 5: Checking group summary information
Block bitmap differences:  -(365985792--366018559)
Fix<y>? yes
Free blocks count wrong for group #11169 (0, counted=32768).
Fix<y>? yes
Free blocks count wrong (527820677, counted=527853445).
Fix<y>? yes
Recreate journal<y>? yes
Creating journal (32768 blocks):  Done.

*** journal has been re-created - filesystem is now ext3 again ***

/dev/sdc1: ***** FILE SYSTEM WAS MODIFIED *****
/dev/sdc1: 4591/183148544 files (1.2% non-contiguous), 204745595/732566272 blocks

root@frogstar:/home/gargravarr# mount /dev/sdc1 /zeraw/
root@frogstar:/home/gargravarr# cd /zeraw/
root@frogstar:/zeraw# ll
total 32
drwxrwxr-x  5 gargravarr 1003  4096 jun  6 20:16 ./
drwxr-xr-x 25 root       root  4096 aug 16 17:21 ../
drwsrwsr-x 39 gargravarr 1003  4096 aug  3 13:44 downloads/
drwxrwxr-x 58 gargravarr 1003  4096 jun  7 12:27 Highdef/
drwx-w----  2 root       1003 16384 sep  7  2013 lost+found/

root@frogstar:/zeraw/Highdef# exit
gargravarr@frogstar:~$ 
{% endhighlight %}
