---
layout: post
title:  "Getting serious with GPG"
date:   2018-05-01
categories: programming
---

For a long time now, I've been wanting to get more serious about signing and encrypting e-mails with
public keys using GnuPG. I remember doing this as an exercise in a computer security course at
university, and apparently I had this thought previously as I found another old key of mine uploaded
to the key servers of the world. Unfortunately, I lost that key, and even though I had a revocation
certificate (that I wrote by hand, bad idea), it didn't help me (maybe because it was hand-written
on paper).

# Doing it right

I felt it was time to do it again, and to do it right! I have done the following things so far,
please do tell me if something doesn't make sense:

1. Created a new RSA key pair
2. Uploaded the public key to both [GitHub](https://help.github.com/articles/adding-a-new-gpg-key-to-your-github-account/) (for signing commits) and [SKS Keyservers](hkp://pool.sks-keyservers.net) (for e-mails, mainly).
3. Made backups of the public and private key in the form of QR codes that I printed on regular A4
   paper to keep as offline backups, in case I lose the key.
4. Generated a revocation certificate that I also printed as a QR code on regular A4 paper to keep
   offline, in case I ever need to revoke the key.
5. Set up [Evolution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evolution_(software)) to sign all my e-mails by
   default using this key.
6. Sent an [e-mail](http://lists.pelagicore.com/pipermail/foss-gbg/2018-April/000419.html) to [foss-gbg](http://foss-gbg.se/) suggesting a key-signing party.

I used [QREncode](https://fukuchi.org/works/qrencode/) to generate the QR codes. After my failure
with the old revocation certificate I realized it would be better to have a simple machine-readable
format for my backups.

# Help out!
The main thing I need now is to have the key signed (so come to the key-signing party, whenever that
will be), so that it can be used with confidence. My key fingerprint is
`1EEF 527E 9341 888C 6D32 61D8 227C A2A2 FF16 BE40`. But don't just take my word for it, make me
prove it to you by meeting up and having me sign something for you!
