---
layout: post
title:  "Hitler as a comedian"
date:   2018-07-28
categories: movies
---

I just watched the satirical movie ["Er ist wieder
da"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Look_Who%27s_Back_(film)) on Netflix. Hitler is magically
transported to the year 2014 and tries to adapt. People meet him and assume he is a comedian just
staying in-character. He becomes a television comedian while, on his spare time, coming to grips
with the 21st century and what has become of nazi Germany (for example, he talks with the leader of
the NPD, the nationalist party). The movie is something like a semi-mockumentary, where the main
plot is scripted but lots of the random encounters with people out on town are authentic (and both
funny and sometimes rather disturbing). 

The whole movie reminded me of a sketch that the comedy group
[Grotesco](https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grotesco) did, where all Hitler's pals are planning his
bachelor's party, which ends up with them placing an ad in the newspaper about a cockatoo for sale
with Hitler's phone number. Hitler becomes enraged by all the ringing while trying to plan for a
battle, but is beamed up to a star trek-like ship, where they send him to a stand-up stage in 21st
century Sweden. The sketch then follows the same theme as the movie, but with everything being
scripted, and Hitler ends up being the host for
[Melodifestivalen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melodifestivalen), the Swedish qualifiers for the
Eurovision Song Contest. Someone put up the entire episode, which contains more exquisitely crafted
sketch comedy, on [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=21q4sps3dug).

Interestingly, the second season of Grotesco, which features the Hitler episode, was sent in 2010,
two years before the [novel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Look_Who%27s_Back) that the movie is
based on was released. And while I assume it is rather popular to make comedy based on a
contemporary Hitler, there are so many similarities, but I haven't been able to find any data that
suggests that either party was influenced by another. It could just be like [The Walking
Dead](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Walking_Dead_(comic_book)) and [28 days
later](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/28_Days_Later), which starts out almost identically - also
[turning out to be a coincidence](http://ew.com/article/2010/11/01/walking-dead-amc-pilot-kirkman/).
