---
layout: post
title:  Making bread
date:   2021-02-05
---

Ever since the covid-19 pandemic started properly, I've been working from home
like 98% of the time. A big upside with this is that the time I would normally
spend commuting to and from work (almost 2 hours per day) is now freed up for
other things, like baking bread!

Before this, last time I baked proper bread was probably in the 9th grade, but I
found an [interesting
recipe](https://bakamedcc.blogg.se/2019/october/kalljasta-frukostfrallor.html)
of buns where the yeast is left to do its work overnight. This was simple enough
to start with, and I've been experimenting back and forth with ingredients, and
I think I just arrived at the **PERFECT** combination last night.

## TL;DR
Get all the ingredients listed, mix the yeast with the liquids, add everything
else, let it stand for 60 minutes, make buns, let stand for 30 minutes, bake in
250 deg C for 15 minutes.

## What you need
- 50 grams of [yeast](https://www.kronjast.se/produkter/kronjast-matbrod/)
- 5 decilitres of water
- 5 decilitres of milk (water works as well, but milk makes it tastier)
- 2 tablespoons of salt
- 50ml light treacle (the one I had said [bread
  treacle](https://www.dansukker.se/se/produkter/alla-produkter/brodsirap) and
  was slightly darker but never mind that)
- 7-8 decilitres of rye flour
- 5-6 decilitres of wheat flour (this is an approximate amount!)
- 1 decilitre of rapeseed oil
- 2 decilitres of [crushed rye](https://www.kungsornen.se/produkter/ragkross-500g/)
- 2 decilitres of wheat bran
- 1 decilitre of line seeds
- 1 decilitre of sunflower seeds
- 1 decilitre of pumpkin seeds.

## How to make it
- Heat the milk/water combo to 37 deg C (protip: heat the milk a bit too much
  and add the water to cool it down)
- Mix with the yeast in a large bowl
- Add oil, treacle, salt, bran, rye and seeds.
- Add the rye flour
- Add wheat flour until the dough is thick enough.

Now this is not an exact science. Thicker dough will make for more compact
bread. The proportions between rye flour and wheat flour is also a matter of
taste. I've tried a couple of times to add rolled oats, and one could add melted
butter to the milk/water combo as well. Of course, use other seeds if that seems
like a good idea. Don't use too much line seeds though, for toxicity reasons,
and only use whole line seeds.

- Let the yeast do its work covered for about an hour
- Pour the dough out on a bench with flour on it. Make reasonable size buns of
  it. I got something like 18-20 pcs yesterday, but previously with smaller buns
  I got about 24 of them. Put them on oven plates, cover the plates and let the
  yeast do some more work for 30 minutes or so. Turn the oven on to 250 deg C.
- Bake the bread for about 15 minutes in 250 deg C. Let them cool down on an
  oven grill.
