---
layout: post
title:  Losing weight
date:   2021-09-08
---

Since I started university in 2006 until perhaps 3 years ago, I've been
constantly putting on weight. Mainly because I stopped exercising regularly and
because I got worse eating habits. Before, I used to play soccer and table
tennis two times a week each, both of which went to zero. At the same time, the
amount of sandwhich lunches and pizzas skyrocketed, you get the picture.

At most, I've weighed around 131 kg, moving back and forth between 130 and 120
the last few years. But on March 8th this year, weighing 126,2 kg, I decided to
try to lose weight, aiming for a weight of 100 kg, because that seemed like a
more reasonable goal than the 83-ish that would put me at a BMI below 25.

I really hate it when diet articles etc tells people that **anyone** can do this
and so on, so I won't do any of that. What I did do though, is to eat less of
everything, and play more DDR (= exercise, but that hasn't been regular). I
don't expect this to work for anyone, but given that I used to eat a LOT,
cutting down on food felt like the obvious choice.

It has been six months, so I figured I should evaluate somehow. Things went
super fast initially but slowed down during summer and vacation time, because
there are other things in life. I expect the rate of weight loss to go down even
further the closer I get to 100 kg, but so far I've managed to keep it pretty
much consistent.

| Date       |Weight |
| ---------- | ----- |
| 2021-03-08 | 126.2 |
| 2021-03-23 | 121.2 |
| 2021-04-18 | 116.1 |
| 2021-06-11 | 111.2 |
| 2021-08-30 | 107.7 |
| 2021-09-08 | 107,4 |

Hopefully, before the end of the year, I'll reach 100 kg.
